Hello everyone and welcome to support vector machines with our lecture in this lecture we're just going
to quickly show you how to actually create a support machine model with our well we'll use the iris
data set that we're already familiar with from the nearest neighbors lectures.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio and get started.
OK.
Here we are in our studio.
We're going to go ahead and call library I S L R and then we're going to just remind ourselves what
the iris dataset looks like by printing out the head of it.
OK.
There's a sample length sample with pedaling pedal with and three possible species to predict before
we can actually use support vector machines with our what we have to do is install the correct package
that has support vector machines in it which are going to have to do is say install packages and we're
going to install the e 1 0 7 1 package.
Make sure to pass this in as a string.
I'm going to go ahead and jump to the finished downloading and installation of this package.
OK here we are successfully impact and installed.
Once you've actually installed this package what you should go ahead and use your control I'll call
the library e 1 0 7 1.
And then don't worry about the warning message it just tells you what version of our was built in versus
the current version we're using.
And then go ahead and say help and pasan s the M.
This should bring up the help documentation for support vector machines.
I would really recommend that you actually just briefly look over the support documentation for support
vector machines.
You'll go ahead and see the arguments.
This particular algorithm function is going to take the formula and data method that we're already familiar
with.
That means we'll be passing in a formula of what we're trying to predict and the data frame that we're
trying to use for the prediction.
You can also then pasand things such as the kernel we saw earlier in the lecture that a very simple
linear kernel just draws a line trying to separate the data but then we can also do polynomial kernels
radial basis kernel and sigmoid kernel by default.
It's going to choose the radial basis kernel which is the most common kernel.
And again that was the idea of seeing things higher they mention in order to create that hyperplane
split.
You also notice you can pass in other parameters such as the cost and gamma that you're going to use
if your support vector machine.
If you did the reading in introduction to Stichel learning you'll have an understanding of what gamma
and cost are usually however well under We'll have an intuition as to what gamma and cost you should
initially use and I'll show you a way to nicely tune the parameters of your support vector machine.
But let's go ahead and get started by actually creating that model.
We're going to do control L and create a support vector machine model.
This is actually very simple to do.
You just go ahead and type in which you want to predict.
I want to predict species and then the tilt sign and I don't use all the features in my data frame and
say My data is the iris data set.
Hopefully by now you're very familiar with this sort of tactic as far as building a training a model
.
We just say the model name SVM function passing your formula and passing your data later on we'll see
some more parameters we can pass with SVM this case the school had and train that model and then call
the summary of that model
and you'll get an output that looks like this.
Here you'll see the parameters that you use in this case for doing classification with for radio kernel
with a cost of 1 and a gamma of 0.2 5.
And we're trying to predict out of three classes and there was 51 support vectors.
And as a quick reminder if you wanted to actually predict values using your model you would just use
the Predict function.
Let me go ahead and copy this code to the script so you can reference it
or clear the console right now if you want it to predict some values.
You would just use a predicate function.
You would say predict you would Pessin your model and then your test data.
In this case and I did a do a test train split but I could do something like just pass in my training
data.
You should never really do this.
As far as predicting off the data you're trained on because you're going to do very well since your
model was literally trained on that data.
But then you could just say something like table the predicted values versus the actual values and in
this case the actual values is going to be the species column.
And here you can see it performs almost perfectly except it accidently gets fooled by some noise between
versicolor and virginica and mislabel.
Two of those flower species.
All right.
Moving along.
Let's focus now on tuning in this is where we're going to actually specialize our understanding of support
vector machines as far as creating them in our.
We noticed that when we called summary of model let me go and show that again one more time we had these
parameters.
Now after doing the reading introductions to learning you hopefully understand the cost and gamma parameters
for support vector machines there's just a very brief explanation of what cost and gamma our cost is
basically what allows the support vector machines to have what's known as a soft margin in the example
of visualization as I showed during the lecture we had a hard margin noting that no training labels
could cross over the margin.
But if you actually have a cost value you can play around with it and allow for soft margins meaning
that the SBM allows some examples to be ignored or placed on the wrong side of that margin.
And that sort of innovation actually often leads to a better fit.
So the cost is the parameter for the soft margin cost function which controls the influence of each
individual support vector.
And this process involves trading error penalty for stability.
Again make sure you read about the introduction of statistical learning's chapter on support vector
machines to fully understand that cost function.
But just as a brief overview it essentially just allows certain training labels to cross over that soft
margin.
The gamma parameter is a little more complicated because it has to do with non-linear kernel functions
.
Again I was showing visualisations where we just did a linear split of a line but you can use these
kernel tricks and involve nonlinear kernel functions.
And this was actually invented around 1992 but basically with the radio kernel function which is a non-linear
kernel function the gamma is the free parameter of the Gaussian radial basis function was essentially
just a formula and a small gamma means a Gaussian if a large variance so the influence of the support
vector is more and a small gamma implies that the class of this support vector is going to have an influence
on the side in the class of the vector.
Even if the distance between them is large that basically means if gamma is large then the variance
is small implying the support vector does not have a widespread influence.
Technically speaking large gamma leads to high bias and low variance models and vice versa.
Again I can't stress enough.
Make sure read introduction to Siskel learning section on support vector machines to truly understand
how to interpret gamma and cost.
Right now we're going to show you how to use R to actually tune those parameters and have a computer
choose the best cost and gamma values for you.
Let's go ahead and clear the console and show you how to use tune.
You can use tune in the following manner.
You go ahead and say tune results as your variable name.
Are going to save your result set and these the tune function.
And again this generic function just tune's hyper parameters of statistical methods.
Specially using a grid search.
You pass in your model that you want to use in this case.
Only use SVM.
Now this is just the actual function of the model of the train the model because we're going to be training
a bunch of SD models and seeing which one has the best fits that are going to see train that x is equal
to my training data.
In this case this is Irus columns 1 through 4.
Then I say training.
Why is my next argument that's going to be the actual label that I'm training for.
I'm going to specify the kernel I want in this case.
I'm just going to say the kernel is the radio kernel
loops
and I'm also going to put in ranges in ranges where you actually start putting in the range of gamma
values and cost values.
You want to do so ranges.
Takes any list arguments of parameters and each parameter that is going to actually be a vector of values
so you can pass in a vector.
For instance we can pasan for cost.
Let's go ahead and test out 0.1 1 and 10 and then for gamma we can also go ahead and test out any other
value we pass and a vector of values we want to test for gamma 0.5 1 to and when you go ahead and run
that depending on your computer that may take a while.
So just keep that in mind.
Then you call a summary of your results and you will get some information as far as the error versus
the cost and gamma combinations and this summary will report back the best cost and gamma values in
this case the best cost and gamma combination was cost of one gamma of 0.5.
Let me go ahead and clear this and explain one more time where we're actually doing here because it
is a little complicated to use tuning if you're not super familiar with support vector machines.
What we have here.
We're going to go ahead and say Let me just show tune ups.
We have the tune function which is going to essentially do a grid search.
And what that means is just try a bunch of different combinations of the support vector machine parameters
and see which one has the lowest error rate.
So you pass in the model you say train the X pass in your features that you want to train on say train
that Y and the actual labels and then I'm going to just test it on the radio kernel and then you say
ranges pasand a list of a vector of Castaldi is that you want to test and a vector of gamma values that
you want to test.
Well last time we just ran this we saw that one and 0.5 were the best.
That means maybe you want to start choosing values around those.
Or I could say 0.1 zero point five and 0.7 as my gamma values and then I'll start choosing around 1
.
Maybe I want to do 0.5 for cost 1 and then 1.5 and then I'll check out those results.
Run that again that may take a while depending on your computer.
And then I'll ask for the summary of the tune results.
And now notice that I actually have another set of best parameters ends up the cost 1.5 and Gamma's
or 0.1 is a better combination than the previous one which was 1.0.
And I believe 0.5.
All right.
And then once you know the parameters in this case we know we want costs to be 1.5 and we want gamma
to be 0.1
and we could keep messing around with more combinations but was going to leave it like that for now
.
You can go ahead and say tuna SVM call the SBM function passing your formula in this case and trying
to predict species off of all the data on my data frame say my data is Irus in your case you would use
your training data if you're doing a train test split.
I'll say my kernel is radial.
Note that that's the default will say cost is equal to one looks.
I mean 1.5.
And then we'll say gamma is equal to 0.1.
And now we have a two SVM.
So I can call the summary off my tuned SVM
and don't get too confused here because there are two separate steps.
One step is that Toona function which returns what cost gamma to use.
And the next step is you actually redoing your model with those particular values and again you can
go in and check the notes or the documentation for tune if you want more help on how to actually use
those functions.
All right that's it for this lecture.
Go ahead and review the notes if you need any more help on these topics what you should have gone out
gotten out of this lecture is the ability to use SVM and the ability to use the tune function if you
want more help on those.
I really suggest one that you read the SVM section of the introduction to Stichel learning book and
also go ahead and check out the documentation for SVM by calling Help SVM and reading through it.
There's also an example at the bottom of this.
If you scroll the way down you'll see some example code using the iris data set.
And there some links for you to check out.
And also I would also recommend that you check out the help for the tune function which is just première
tuning a functions using grid search.
Again all that's doing is it's basically you put in a bunch of combinations for the parameters.
It tests them all and see what's the best combination the results and the lowest error.
OK thanks everyone.
Hope those things for you.
And coming up next is your support machine project.
Thanks.
I'll see you at the next lecture.